# 12. Takeaways: Setting up development and test sets
->


* Choose dev and test sets from a distribution that reflects what data you expect to get in the future and want to do well on. This may not be the same as your training data’s distribution.
->


* Choose dev and test sets from the same distribution if possible.
->


* Choose a single-number evaluation metric for your team to optimize. If there are multiple goals that you care about, consider combining them into a single formula (such as averaging multiple error metrics) or defining satisficing and optimizing metrics.
->


* Machine learning is a highly iterative process: You may try many dozens of ideas before finding one that you’re satisfied with.
->


* Having dev/test sets and a single-number evaluation metric helps you quickly evaluate algorithms, and therefore iterate faster.
->


* When starting out on a brand new application, try to establish dev/test sets and a metric quickly, say in less than a week. It might be okay to take longer on mature applications.
->


* The old heuristic of a 70%/30% train/test split does not apply for problems where you have a lot of data; the dev and test sets can be much less than 30% of the data.
->


* Your dev set should be large enough to detect meaningful changes in the accuracy of your algorithm, but not necessarily much larger. Your test set should be big enough to give you a confident estimate of the final performance of your system.
->


* If your dev set and metric are no longer pointing your team in the right direction, quickly change them: (i) If you had overfit the dev set, get more dev set data. (ii) If the actual distribution you care about is different from the dev/test set distribution, get new dev/test set data. (iii) If your metric is no longer measuring what is most important to you, change the metric.
->


