# 35. Surpassing human-level performance
->

You are working on speech recognition and have a dataset of audio clips. Suppose your dataset has many noisy audio clips so that even humans have 10% error. Suppose your system already achieves 8% error. Can you use any of the three techniques described in Chapter 33 to continue making rapid progress?
->


If you can identify a subset of data in which humans significantly surpass your system, then you can still use those techniques to drive rapid progress. For example, suppose your system is much better than people at recognizing speech in noisy audio, but humans are still better at transcribing very rapidly spoken speech.
->


For the subset of data with rapidly spoken speech:
->


1. You can still obtain transcripts from humans that are higher quality than your algorithm’s output.
->


2. You can draw on human intuition to understand why they correctly heard a rapidly spoken utterance when your system didn’t.
->


3. You can use human-level performance on rapidly spoken speech as a desired performance target.
->


More generally, so long as there are dev set examples where humans are right and your algorithm is wrong, then many of the techniques described earlier will apply. This is true even if, averaged over the entire dev/test set, your performance is already surpassing human-level performance.
->


There are many important machine learning applications where machines surpass human level performance. For example, machines are better at predicting movie ratings, how long it takes for a delivery car to drive somewhere, or whether to approve loan applications. Only a subset of techniques apply once humans have a hard time identifying examples that the algorithm is clearly getting wrong. Consequently, progress is usually slower on problems where machines already surpass human-level performance, while progress is faster when machines are still trying to catch up to humans.
->

